The next step in the vulnerability management process is
analyzing the problems and deciding what to do about it.
For example, using our old car as the example.
Let's just say there's a tire that's low on air,
what should you do about it?
Well, you can put more air in it or you can replace the tire or do nothing.
You need to analyze the situation and decide what's best for you and your pocketbook.
While a new tire may be best,
it may be too expensive of an option.
In IT, you need to make similar decisions.
Software manufacturers may notify us that they have a patch to fix a bug.
Do you install it right away or buy new and better software?
Or you always have the option of doing nothing.
The previously mentioned CVE and NVD websites
really help with this with their vulnerability ratings.
You'll see this in the exercise.
The software manufacturer may also tell you their idea of the risk.
The last step in the vulnerability management process is taking action,
doing something about the vulnerability once you've analyzed
its risks and the benefits of applying effects.
Let's say you decide to apply manufacturers update or patch within your business systems.
Do you start applying it on everyone's computer?
That could have some negative consequences,
particularly if it affects some of the other software on that computer.
It's best to test it first on
some expandable systems to make sure the update doesn't cause problems.
Quick tangent on zero-day or O'day vulnerabilities.
These are ones that haven't been made public.
The software vendor may not even know there's a problem with their code.
Black-Hat hackers may find them and use them to cause problems from the dark web.
These vulnerabilities can be actively exploited to cause harm.
If you hear of a zero-day vulnerability and attack,
you need to take action right away.
The vulnerability management process can be long
and complex depending on your technologies.
Consider how you will identify,
analyze and take action next time you hear about a vulnerability.